welcome to translate check I'm Bradley
has Lamar have you ever wanted your own
mini monster truck meshed with a jetski
a skateboard and an ATV BAM the shredder
quite a bit of a take off there 30 mile
an hour top speed 196 cc engine first
thing you'll notice is this is very much
like a jet ski the more power you give
it the more mobility you have which is
pretty fantastic on your laughs I
right through the dirt no problem going
over some bumps so this thing is 13
horsepower the continuously variable
transmission or the CVT
keeps me from having to shift or have
any gears or anything like that
your line to the mud
yeah just tracking through the mud
all right so we're here with Ben the CEO
of BPG works thanks so much for being
with us thank you it's good to go yeah
good to see you again as well I think
last time we saw you was in Boston with
the you know bring me up to speed
lots changed since then the two biggest
changes I were obviously in Canada now
and the uno is on hold
part of the reason for this was I first
started the uno project it was a high
school science fair project I was never
supposed to be a business I quickly
realized that there's really practical
safety issues that we just can't
overcome when they own up what started
off as very simple concept of one motor
turned into something at hundreds of
moving parts for motors quickly moving
out of the realm yeah reasonable pricing
so it wasn't until this big investment
came in that I was able to merge the two
companies together I used my own
personal equity to come and save my
first investors they believed in me they
helped me get to get started and I gave
them shares in the new company
restructured the board put in people
that share the shredder vision we've
been working on it ever since have you
just been reading every business book
ever written I have read so many
business papers
the shredders started off as a business
idea I noticed a big gap in the power
sports market where traditionally its
older men 40 years and up that are into
ATVing and snowmobiling and the markets
been shrinking for the last decade at
the same time the extreme sport action
sport market were talking skateboarding
motocross wakeboarding surfing it's game
exactly it's been the most explosive
sports market worldwide for the last
decade how can we target these younger
athletes and get them into the power
sports industry
where the steering works by leaning left
and right on the deck simulates the
carbon you get on a skateboard or
surfboard then you throw in a throttle
that combines power sports motocross and
ATVing we've really created this
crossover between the two worlds
you know this is like if you want ever
wanted to go catch a friggin sasquatch
this is what you take so there's these
little spiked things on the foot pad I'm
wearing awesome boots so I can't even
really feel it so this is essentially
like a BMX trail right back here through
the mud no problem the big treads just
take it on oh yeah you can see if you
let off the throttle
you don't even have to break it why
decide to go with the steering in the
board instead of you know almost like a
jet ski like old-school stand-up jet ski
stability purposes considering that
you're standing on something that you
want to be directly connected to so if
you have the handle moving and the
machine moving then you got nothing to
hold on to so the board is the thing
that moves where the rest of the machine
stays fixed to your body how does it
work essentially yeah it's not
electronic at all actually it's
completely mechanical it has a patented
dual CVT transmission system that does
not only steering aspect of differential
track biasing but also doing speed
control like doing a high and a low gear
kind of thing thirty miles an hour top
speed was 30 just the sweet spot or how
did you get to that number I think 30
represents honestly for most people the
maximum speed you'd want to be going on
something standing up after that it's
just it's frightening yeah so you don't
want to be going you know 70 miles an
hour it's something that is standing up
by it feels a lot faster so you would
see this in kind of an ATV shop or a
power sport shop why would someone go
after this instead of an ATV you want to
do a power sport need a lot of extra
equipment you need an SUV you need a
trailer you need a garage to store it
the shredder you can ride all year long
and go on any kind of train and it's
small enough that you can keep it in
your car if you want to what else you
guys have coming up one of our very
first youtube videos was seen by the
military and they invited us out to do
testing and four years later we now have
a very different creature
it has a hybrid drive system it is a 48
horsepower rotary engine that drives a
lithium battery bank and then two
electric hub motors so it has the
ability to spin on the spot okay and it
can carry 800 pounds of equipment on top
of the idea is that of some of the extra
baggage that is an essential to their
survival they can put on the mule light
hitting the whole squads load and
basically help them be more effective in
the field
it's like packing your car you but you
don't need all your clothes you put them
in the back
do you mind what your computer with you
or some of those things like that right
perfect for a road trip yeah so we have
another really exciting upgrade for the
shredder that's coming up right now
working at building 240 horsepower
rotary engine versions of the shredder
the Crown Prince of Dubai so we're
building these two shredders for him
that are gonna go 60 miles an hour
the engines right now they're from this
German company that builds ultralight
engines as we start refining the design
we'll be able to make them for cheaper
yeah and that will be like the upgrade
that if you wanted to backflip the
shredder it will be possible all right
so that was a lot more tiring than I
thought it would be I know this thing
looks a little bit more like a Segway
but man it performs and plays a lot like
a dirt bike ensure it's in that big boy
toy category but for round $4,000 and
the fact you can pack it up and throw it
in your truck I think it makes it a
little bit more enticing than the
alternatives and I like it
alright for trans logic I'm Bradley
hasn't Meier see you next time